# hrid-ai-
LITERATURE REVIEW 

It has been observed that most cardiovascular diseases can be prevented by avoiding risk factors like tobacco use, unhealthy eating habits, obesity, physical inactivity, and excessive alcohol use. People who have cardiovascular diseases or who are at high cardiovascular risk due to the presence of risk factors like hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, or effectively treated illness should seek medical attention as soon as possible. Early diagnosis is crucial because Cardiovascular diseases continue to be the leading cause of morbidity and mortality. With the changing times, the healthcare expenses have been skyrocketing and it can get difficult for one to get advanced healthcare. Heart illness early identification can mean the difference between life and death. One can have a greater chance of seeing hazards early on if one is aware of the early symptoms of CVDs. 
There are several other authors who’ve worked on detecting CVDs using various models such as - NLP, CNN and RNN, Naïve Bayes and many more. However, they have their own set of strengths and weaknesses. Talking about the detection of Coronary heart disease, it is normally detected using McPherson. It utilizes unsupervised learning methods and Neural networks for the prediction of the model to be accurate and effective. Another notable example is the commendable work done by Mr. R Subramaniam, that involved the diagnosis and prediction of heart diseases and blood pressure using neural networks. The IJRASET published a research paper on detecting CVDs using Machine Learning algorithms. The authors acquired the highest frequency while implementing the Random Forest algorithm. 
